[activities] add documentation for get_activity_instance (#6981)
hammerandchisel/discord-api-docs: docs/activities/Development_Guides.mdx

---

### Preventing unwanted activity sessions

Activities are surfaced through iframes in the Discord app. The activity website itself is publicly reachable at `<application_id>.discordsays.com`. Activities will expect to be able to communicate with Discord's web or mobile client via the Discord SDK's RPC protocol. If a user loads the activity's website in a normal browser, the Discord RPC server will not be present, and the activity will likely fail in some way.

It is theoretically possible for a malicious client to mock Discord's RPC protocol or load one activity website when launching another. Because the activity is loaded inside Discord, the RPC protocol is active, and the activity is none the wiser.

> To enable an activity to "lock down" activity access, we encourage utilizing the `get_activity_instance` API, found at `discord.com/api/applications/<application_id>/activity-instance/<instance_id>'`. The route requires a Bot token of the application. It returns a serialized active activity instance for the given application, if found, otherwise it returns a 404. Here are two example responses:

Reviewer: can we document this as a proper route somewhere (using the endpoint formatting)? either in one of the activity pages or on the application page

(we should also do this for the activity attachment endpoint)

```javascript
curl https://discord.com/api/applications/987654321987654321/instances/987654321987654321 -H 'Authorization: Bot <bot token>'
{"message": "404: Not Found", "code": 0}

curl https://discord.com/api/applications/987654321987654321/instances/987654321987654321 -H 'Authorization: Bot <bot token>'
{"application_id":"937798149664288788","instance_id":"987654321987654321","launch_id":"987654321987654321","location":{"id":"gc-912952092627435520-912954213460484116","kind":"gc","channel_id":"912954213460484116","guild_id":"912952092627435520"},"users":["205519959982473217"]}
```

> With this API, the activity's backend can verify that a client is in fact in an instance of that activity before allowing the client to participate in any meaningful gameplay. How an activity implement's "session verification" is up to them. The solution can be as granular as gating specific features or as binary as not returning the activity HTML except for valid sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this API, the activity's backend can verify that a client is in fact in an instance of that activity before allowing the client to participate in any meaningful gameplay. How an activity implements "session verification" is up to it. The solution can be as granular as gating specific features or as binary as not returning the activity HTML except for valid sessions.
```

> In the below flow diagram, we show how server can deliver the activity website, only for valid users in a valid activity session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below flow diagram, we show how the server can deliver the activity website only for valid users in a valid activity session:
```
